---
excerpt: 'In the past only developers had access to dark modes. Now it’s a trend to include dark modes in apps and websites. But does it work for usability?'
featured_image: /assets/images/articles/dark-light-example.png
title: 'Let There Be Light Mode and Dark Mode'
id: 02a052d0-bf37-4bc8-acd5-988e9e5100ce
tags:
  - ux-design
  - ui-design
  - color
---
<h4>Introduction</h4>
<p>Dark themes are favored by users who prefer maximum control over the brightness on their screens. Dark mode’s fans claim that dark modes are easier on their eyes, especially in darker surroundings.
</p>
<p>iOS 13 introduced dark mode in 2019, which followed dark mode for MacOS in 2018. Many iOS app makers are quickly following suit, including Google and Microsoft, designing and coding dark modes into their apps.
</p>
<h4>The Analysis</h4>
<p>I have not done any research on this matter, so I defer to <a href="https://www.nngroup.com" target="_blank" title="World Leaders in Research-Based User Experience">Nielson Norman Group</a>. For those of you who don’t know them, Nielson Normal Group (NN/G) are among the most respected user experience researchers in the computer technology industry.
</p>
<p>NN/G writes <a href="https://www.nngroup.com/articles/dark-mode/" title="Dark Mode vs. Light Mode: Which Is Better?" target="_blank">an article which presents their own analysis into whether dark mode is beneficial or not</a> for users. They review academic literature on the subject as they haven’t done their own research.
</p>
<h4>Which is better?</h4>
<p>Which mode is better, light mode or dark mode? The answer depends on a few variables such as:
</p>
<ul>
	<li>User’s eye condition (not necessarily age)</li>
	<li>Light levels in the user’s surroundings</li>
	<li>Long-term versus short-term effects</li>
	<li>Text size</li>
</ul>
<h4>The High Level Summary (tl;dr)</h4>
<p><strong>Light mode generally performed better</strong> in all kinds of tests, from reading long form to glanceable tasks. Users in the research referenced by NN/G were able to complete tasks more quickly and accurately using light modes. Despite this, there are hints that light mode’s benefits could come at long term costs to eye health.
</p>
<p>However, <strong>dark mode was better for special vision needs</strong>, like some form of myopia or other vision-related conditions like cataracts. For these users, dark mode reduced overall fuzziness in the interfaces because less light was scattered by their eye conditions.
</p>
<h4>The Action</h4>
<p>Give your users a choice. Let them choose between light mode or dark mode in your app. But, don’t enable dark mode by default, enable the light mode by default.
</p>