---
excerpt: 'Accessibility is both the attitude and effort we invest into our shared tools to make them usable by everyone in all aspects of life.'
featured_image: /assets/images/articles/neil-thomas-siu1glk6v5k-unsplash.jpg
title: 'Accessibility in Design and Development Efforts'
id: 4e96b4de-20ac-40fc-8229-2696f8705d4a
tags:
  - accessibility
  - information-hierarchy
  - semantics
  - content-planning
  - ux-design
  - typography
---
<h4>Introduction</h4>
<p>Each person is individually enabled and be individually hindered. Some people encounter hindrances which can totally prevent them from taking part in simple life tasks. These hindrances can be vision deficiencies, hearing loss, muscular motor challenges, or some form of cognitive friction. People who make things are in a position to consider those challenges and enable hindered users to easily overcome those challenges.
</p>
<h4>Consideration In Digital Appliances</h4>
<p>People benefit from software and websites when the creators think ahead and build in accommodations for the users. In software and websites, these accommodations allow the users to easily get the information they need and the give the data they need to give. Without these accommodations, the user may struggle and it’s possible they will not use the app.
</p>
<h4>In Design</h4>
<p>How do digital creators consider and build for users of all challenge levels when it comes to visual design?
</p>
<p>We ask questions like:
</p>
<ul>
	<li>Did we use enough <strong>color contrast </strong>to help people easily read the interface and tell what they’re seeing?</li>
	<li>Are the buttons designed to have large enough <strong>tap targets</strong> to make it easy for fingers or imprecise inputs?</li>
	<li>Can people use the <strong>keyboard navigation</strong> to move around the screen without a mouse?</li>
	<li>Is the content easy to understand and explained so that it <strong>makes sense</strong> to newcomers and people with cognitive friction?</li>
	<li>Do the <strong>words appear large enough</strong> even for people with vision challenges?</li>
</ul>
<h4>In Code</h4>
<p>How do digital creators consider and build for users of all challenge levels when it comes to code?
</p>
<p>We ask questions such as:
</p>
<ul>
	<li>Did we use <strong>proper semantic headings</strong> to communicate topic segments in the text?</li>
	<li>Can keyboard users <strong>skip the navigation</strong> and go straight to the main content?</li>
	<li>Will pressing tab show the user where they are on the page via <strong>focus rings</strong>?</li>
	<li>Does a <strong>screen reader have enough information</strong> to explain how the content’s parts relate to each other?</li>
	<li>Is the form easy to fill out <strong>without using a mouse</strong>?</li>
</ul>
<h4>Responsibility is the Price of Skill</h4>
<p>We owe it to both our stakeholders and our users to create accessible digital products. Our stakeholder will have a larger customer and user base. Our users will be able to part in life’s digital activities.
</p>
<h4>Additional Resources</h4>
<p>I’ve listed some additional reading material below. I use the resources often in my own daily work and projects.
</p>
<ul>
	<li><a href="https://accessibility.digital.gov/visual-design/color-and-contrast/" target="blank">Accessibility for Teams: Visual Design</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://accessibility.digital.gov/front-end/getting-started/" target="blank">Accessibility for Teams: Front-end Development</a></li>
	<li><a href="https://webaim.org/resources/contrastchecker/" target="blank">WebAIM Color Contrast Checker</a></li>
</ul>