---
excerpt: 'Published resource file at Figma Community of Apple device typography styles.'
featured_image: /assets/images/articles/aple-device-typography-styles-figma-community.png
title: 'Apple Device Type Styles at Figma Community'
id: f6783fec-5e13-40b8-b2e8-42c735909ec2
tags:
  - typography
  - ui-design
  - figma
---
<h4>What is Figma?</h4>
<p>Figma is hot stuff.
</p>
<p>It’s a collaborative platform which allows designers to collaborate with each other in real time. Because of its collaborative foundation, even business analysts, product owners, and other team members can access design resources and documentation.
</p>
<p>I use it at my day job to design user interfaces and I can ask the business analysts to help me change <em>lorem ipsum</em> to closer-to-real data and content.
</p>
<h4>What is the Figma Community?</h4>
<p>The Figma Community is a place where Figma users can share their ideas with other Figma users. Whether it’s publishing a helpful resource file, like the one I have published today, or looking for visual solutions to a design problem, it’s a way to access files others have shared. It’s like Stack Overflow or CodePen, but for Figma files.
</p>
<h4>What’s your file?</h4>
<p>My file, <a href="https://www.figma.com/community/file/900501189674641930/Apple-Device-OS-Type-Styles" target="_blank">Apple Device OS Type Styles</a>, has helped me on the iOS and WatchOS apps I am designing. I created these type styles using the information at <a href="https://developer.apple.com/design/resources/" target="_blank">Apple’s Developer documentation</a>. I decided to make my work usable to other user interface designers. It’s also a way I can say “Thank you” to others who have helped me solve tricky problems.
</p>
<h4>You want to use it?</h4>
<p>Sign up for your own Figma account — they have free accounts, but you get more from the paid accounts — and you can use it too. <a href="https://www.figma.com/community/file/900501189674641930/Apple-Device-OS-Type-Styles" target="_blank">Get Apple Device OS Type Styles here</a>. Show me what you make!
</p>